There is a saying in Hong Kong films:
"Wi-Fi bat-boo."
This means "the only speed is unbreakable".
This is in Cantonese, a language with tones,
Which English speakers have difficulty distinguishing. So when the American says this phrase with
Wrong tones - "wifi bat po" - you are getting Cantonese meme.
"It has become a kind of joke that people will do send it to each other. It's like oh, that's bad ass
Wi-Fi is very good.
"Wi-Fi bat-boo" is very funny.
If English is your first language, you may be more familiar with a different joke:
"Supplies!"
This is the idea that East Asians mix Rs and Ls in English:
"Herro hero!"
It's an ongoing gag in Lost in Translation,
Oscar-winning movie about two Americans grieving in Japan.
"Lat pack. You know lat pack?"
"Rat? Rat Pack."
The film makes communication with the locals seem hopeless.
Hey. Lip my store. “Hey? Lip them?”
At one point, the character Scarlett Johansson asks:
"Why are they changing Rs and L here?"
"Oh, for the ships."
This movie might be a little rrrrr - rude, however
Not a bad question. Because if you are a real curious, then foreign
The tone gives us an opportunity to learn something about another language.
So this cup was applied to Japanese, Korean and Chinese speakers.
"McFry!" "Herro." "Fa ra ra ra ra."
But all of these languages ​​deal with Rs and
Ls in different ways.
First, we need to talk about the R sound
In English. It turns out that there is not just one way to pronounce it.
"Oh it's incredibly diverse."
Eleanor Lawson uses ultrasound to study the English language
Phonetics. "I shouted tr's which is kind of
Rrr sound. Maybe you can hear my t exploited p. So I do ara's voice. diverse. You can take
The retroflex R where your tongue essentially curls upside down is under your palatine arch.
"run Run." It says runched-r, which is common in
The North American English language is particularly complex.
"Nurse. Nurse."
Say the word fur.
The fur. How can you tell someone to put their tongue to make that R?
The middle of the tongue rises in the mouth,
While the root of the tongue is retracting.
You may have some lip approximation, too.
R looks like this, where the air flow is not so blocked by the tongue or lips, and is called
"Convergence" in the acoustics.
"So form all of these structures in
The same time can be very difficult for someone who is not used to producing that. "
Voice r is one of the last vowels that English-speaking children learn to say. This
It takes up to 5 adorable years for them to find out abroad.
"Lilac. And red"
The L-Audio in English can change depending on
On its site in one word. Say the words "scoop" or "level".
That the first L is "clear L" you can probably feel your tongue and touch the top of the mouth,
Directly behind your front teeth. As in "command". But l at the end of the word is "dark L"
It may not tip the tongue until you touch your mouth at all.
"Dark L is the posterior position of the tongue that moves toward the soft palate and is
It gives an o-ish sound like "Uhh O".
"level." "level."
So the English R and L are complicated, but still, "lat pack", rrr, llll-- it looks like
Very different sounds.
May help look at the Spanish - he says
The word Salero.
"Salero. Salt Shaker."
"Salero" "Salero"
This R - with tongue flap is made on the edge behind the front teeth
Not too far from where L is pronounced.
Japanese has this sound R. It does not have an lll in "lake" or rrr in "red".
"We have ra ri ru re ro, which looks nice like L and R."
These are the five syllables in Japanese that contain the tongue tongue flap: "ra ri ru re ro"
Try saying: "ra ri ru re ro."
When they are converted to the Latin alphabet, they're written like this, with the letter
"s". But the Japanese R-Audio is actually closer to our L-Sound "no" than it is
To English "ra". My name is Mariko and for every English-speaking language
Friends, the intuition that they say is Mary Ko. And how do I explain to them just imagine
My name is written with Maliko and you should be fine.
When words migrate from English to Japanese, both Rs and Ls become Japanese rupees.
"Garasu".
"Karendaa".
"Boringu".
"Raito".
There are thousands of these loan words that you
Japanese speakers must learn with rrrs and ls, which are two sounds that are Japanese ears
Not set to distinguish in the first place.
Like Japanese, Korean does not have English RRR sound. They have this message. It's "Ryul".
"Lear?"
"Me Mujahideen."
"Eh me."
"The Mujahideen."
"ul. me mujahideen."
"Like my tongue goes straight to
The roof of my mouth. Mujahideen.
"RIEUL". It takes on a different sound depending on
Its location inside the word. So when it follows a vowel, it contains
The flap looks like a Japanese R.
"Duriseo. Duriseo".
This also means that it is written with
The letter "r" when converted into a Latin script.
Dorisu. But when he's on
The end of the word or followed by a consonant, this sounds more like L-sound and it's
Written in the Latin alphabet as "L".
So it is unlikely that Korean speakers
He will say "herro" since L-Audio can map on English L.
But "Dark L" is not found in Korean. So when they are new to English, Koreans
May use their own L sound in locations where we use the Dark L, near the end
the words. "As the story unfolds, someone may change the world."
There are at least 8 major Chinese languages, but we'll take a look at Mandarin and Cantonese.
Both have a clear L sound. This is limited to the beginning of the sections.
"Ling. It's like" pretty. " "No." Pull "."
So the idea that they would change "fa la la"
To "fa ra ra" is just a mistake and the makers of Christmas story should feel bad.
Like Korean, Mandarin and Cantonese no
You have a dark L sound like in "pull". But when they encounter L near the end
A word in English, it tends to pronounced more like a vowel.
"One hundred years, 90 years. I said we must respect this kind of people."
"Choose the coldest possible. Really."
Mandarin has the sound of p. At first
From the syllable it looks like this: "zrr. Zrr. So actually, maybe R looks more like S
The "treasure". zrr Rénxìng. "
At the end of a syllable: "Eh". This means "son."
Cantonese, on the other hand, does not have
R sound at all.
So when he speaks English, sometimes they use an aw sound or an L voice.
"We just tried hard to prove ourselves."
Our ability to produce sounds in a new language depends in part on whether these sounds are
Distinguished purposeful in our first language. So the Japanese speaker hears LP and rrr
- It is very similar to the English hearing in Chinese tones.
"Ling. Ling. Ling. Ling."
"What. What. What. What. Yes. I know, people's minds are only blown."
We all carry the rules of our mother tongue with us when we learn new languages.
"Accent is your identity, so I don't want to look like an American or a British person."
So if you hear a foreign accent, remember
It's a unique hybrid, it's like a striped lion - something you can only get if you are
Brave enough to venture beyond the comfort of your mother tongue.
If you enjoyed this video, you are probably the type of person who loves to learn
The complex topics are comprehensive for digestion, interactive lessons, such as the Logic Path of Brilliant.
Brilliant is a problem solving site that teaches you to think as a scientist. they
We have courses on everything from calculus to astronomy and everyday problems in math and science.
To learn more about Brilliant, go to Brilliant.org/vox and sign up for free. The first 200 people
To visit this link you will get 20% of the annual subscription premium, which gives you access
For all daily problems and open all of the courses. It wasn't brilliant sparkling
In making this video but their support makes videos like this possible. So go
Check 'em out.